The university project timetabling problem is a complex task faced by many universities. Solving the timetabling problem helps to create an optimal learning environment, promotes student achievements, and enhances the overall quality of graduation projects at the university.  
The problem involves three main tasks: team formation, project assignment, and project presentations and examinations. For the team formation problem, each student has a set of attributes that are related to the project, and forming a team requires a balance of those attributes within a group. As for the project assignment, the assignment is based on ranking of projects for each group based on preferences; lastly, in the project presentation/examination problem there is a set of hard and soft constraints, where examination scheduling requires satisfying all hard constraints and minimizing violations of soft constraints. 
For the team formation problem, the four skills (Research Skill, English Level, Academic Performance and Leadership Level) for each student will be generated. The count of students will be determined by the size of the dataset, whereas we will have three sizes: small, medium, and large. Following our Department of Computer Science count of students for this semester, the small size dataset will consist of 60 students. As for the medium dataset, we assume that it will be 180 students, and lastly the large size dataset will be assumed as 300 students. To ensure diversity, a number of different instances will be generated from each dataset size (e.g., four or five instances from each size – small, medium, or large). 
For the project assignment, the maximum project list size will be 75 projects (i.e., maximum number of projects depending on the large student dataset). The number of needed projects will depend on the number of incoming students. For example, if the incoming data from team formation algorithm consists of 60 students, the first 15 projects in the project list will be utilized as the projects available. In addition, the required courses for each project along with the preference list of projects for each group will be generated with respect to the number of projects for each dataset size. Moreover, each grouped team will have an assumed number for their average GPA value. 
As for the presentation scheduling problem, it will handle a list of projects and their assigned supervisors. By utilizing the projects list, we will append the synthesized generated supervisor’s IDs to the list which will represent the committee members.
